---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: Progress in Programming Report
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2019-11-18
labels:
  - Report
---


My experience in developing basic JAVASCRIPT programs was more challenging than I thought but worthwhile nevertheless. I think personally for me, I understood the logic behind what happens when the code is being implemented. However creating JavaScript programs on your own is a different story. Despite my limited coding background, I thought I could still push through like I’ve down with all my other business courses as long as I thought logically. However, while I did learn a lot, this was the first class where I felt this uncertainty or unprepared because I still didn’t understand things completely. Its like learning a new language but in computer form. I could translate it but I couldn’t speak the language which the best analogy that I can give.

	On the bright side, it feels good to understand the rules and how to utilize Javascript to perform any action you give it. How to create a function, a loop, making sure that each code has a semi-colon. I slowly have become more accustomed to the format of what Javascript is. It’s just a matter of meshing all the topics together that we learned within a matter of weeks. That was challenging and especially with Assignment 1, it was the true test to see if you understood everything. And for me, I am not satisfied with my performance but I will keep striving to learn and be adaptable.

Agree or Disagree?

My programming skills have greatly improved. 
Agree! Compared to where I started, I feel less intimidated about coding and can do the basics from variables, loops, html forms. In addition, I know how to utilize CSS to format the layout/look of the page. 
I am enthusiastic about programming. 
Agree! Why would I be here if I wasn’t enthusiastic about the work that I do. Programming is one of those things where it is challenging yet rewarding when you finally understand and get your code to perform the action you want it to do! Especially when it came to creating that JSON array and watching it display on our products display html page for assignment one, it made my day knowing that I create something simple that fulfilled one of the many requirements for assignment one.  
I can do the practice WODs without looking at the screencast solutions.
Half agree! For the browser history WODS, I can do it without looking at the screencast solutions. However, when it comes to after like creating invoice 1 and smartphone products, that’s where I need to occasionally go back to figure out my mistake. 
The labs have helped me to learn and I am able to complete them with confidence.
Disagree! While I did learn to a certain extent, I felt that it reduced my morale because it makes me realize how much I didn’t know. The beauty yet scary part is that the possibilities are endless yet, there is so many ways to approach one solution that you just get overwhelmed. Especially when it came to Lab13, I struggled to learn the last two methods of server processing just because I would sometimes incorporate logic from the other methods and confused myself in the process.
I feel ready to move to the next stage of complexity in programming (building small web applications).
Disagree! Practice makes perfect like the WODs and personally, I wish we could spend more time on each topic and let it sink in. Because I know I’m a slow learner, I need time to really take in all the information and practice it over and over.
I think the class can be improved to help my learning.
Agree! One thing that I wish this class did was prepare us before semester started. I’ve heard so many students struggle with this class and had ICS101 included a brief intro to Javascript or we get required readings and get tested on the first day of class, it would be an indicator that shows what we are getting ourselves into and we would feel better prepared to handle the class.
There are things that work really well my learning in this class.
I would say that the WOD’s were definitely a great help! However, when they started disappearing in the later labs, then that’s when things really started to go downhill because there was no cohesive piece of work that you could look back on and practice until you get the idea. 

Despite all the challenges, I hope to continue to hone my skills in coding!
