---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: E5 Reflecting on Assignment 2
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2019-12-09
labels:
  - Assignment 2
---
<b>Provide a brief introduction to the assignment along with a link to this page for further details </b>

In this assignment, we had to upgrade our Assignment 1 project by doing the following. First, the user must start off with the home page which takes them to the products quantity page where the user gets to select their amount of quantities. Upon selecting their products, the user can login if he/she already has an account or go to the new registration page and create a new user login. Upon logging in or creating a new registration, the user will be sent to the invoice page with their quantities. While meeting these objectives, we also had to have personalization such as showing welcome "user name" to greet the user as well as other security measures in place such as being unable to access the invoice page unless he/she logged or registered. Lastly, when registering a new user, their userame, password, email and full name had to validated on the server.

<b>What did you learn from this assignment? </b>

From this assignment, I learned how to pass on data from one page to the next and to the invoice. Personally, one the struggles we had was being able to keep some of the data because we ended up losing it once it reaches the login page and wouldnt show to the invoice. However, after getting help, we found a way to create global variable so that we can pass on the product quantity data. Additionally, I learned more about how the server communicates with the client. From there we were able request data from the server to have our other pages function and do validations so that no invalid data is being inputted. 

<b>Did you work with a partner? Assign an estimated percentage on the amount each team member contributed to the assignment (including yourself).</b>

I worked with Jayla for the project and I felt that we contributed 50% each to the project. I felt that we worked well together and got the project done in the end.

<b>How did you get help when you needed it? What did you need help with? </b>

I got help when I needed it by emailing Mr. Port & Mr. Kazman. Additionally, when they had office hours, I went to them prepared with questions to ask so that we were able to figure out a solution. Specifically, I needed help with validation on the server side and getting the data to pass to the invoice after going through the login/registration pages.

<b>How was developing this assignment different than assignment #1? </b>

This assignment is different than assignment 1 in a way where that assignment 2 focuses on secuirty to make sure that the user logins so that they can't bypass to the invoice page. Additionally, assignment 2 adds in personalization so that we can pass in data that is specific only towards that user.

<b>Estimate the % of time you spent (a) thinking about how to do something, (b) writing code (but do not include testing, (c) testing and debugging </b>

The % of time I spent thinking about how to do something is 50% for testing and debugging, 25% of how to do something and 25% of how to write the code.

<b>Describe what worked well with this project? What did not work well?</b>

What worked well was that the validation was good and that the new users were registered and could login successfully along with old users. Additionally, the data could be passed all the way to the invoice. What did not work well was that the CSS wasn't set so whenever the error messages came up on the new registration page, the boxes would move due to the message showing up. 

<b>If you could go back in time and do things differently, what would you do differently?</b>
If I could go back and do things differently, I would definitely say get help ahead of time and having it checked instead of scrambling last minute. That way, it would ease our worries and it allows us to get the project finished faster. 
